src/docs/reference.rst, before:

===============================
``ankerl::nanobench`` Reference
===============================

.. How to link: https://breathe.readthedocs.io/en/latest/domains.html
   E.g. :cpp:class:`ankerl::nanobench::Bench`

----------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:class:`Bench <ankerl::nanobench::Bench>` - Main Entry Point
----------------------------------------------------------------


.. doxygenclass:: ankerl::nanobench::Bench
    :members:



---------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:class:`Rng <ankerl::nanobench::Rng>` - Extremely fast PRNG
---------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenclass:: ankerl::nanobench::Rng
    :members:



-------------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:class:`Result <ankerl::nanobench::Result>` - Benchmark Results
-------------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenclass:: ankerl::nanobench::Result
    :members:



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:func:`doNotOptimizeAway() <ankerl::nanobench::doNotOptimizeAway>`
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::doNotOptimizeAway()



--------------------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:func:`render() <ankerl::nanobench::render>` - Mustache-like Templates
--------------------------------------------------------------------------


.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::render(char const *mustacheTemplate, Bench const &bench, std::ostream &out)


:cpp:func:`templates::csv <ankerl::nanobench::templates::csv>`
--------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::templates::csv



:cpp:func:`templates::htmlBoxplot <ankerl::nanobench::templates::htmlBoxplot>`
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::templates::htmlBoxplot



:cpp:func:`templates::json <ankerl::nanobench::templates::json>`
----------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::templates::json


---------------------
Environment Variables
---------------------

``NANOBENCH_ENDLESS``
---------------------

Sometimes it helps to run a benchmark for a very long time, so that it's possible to attach with a profiler like
`perf <https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page>`_ and get meaningful statistics. This can be done with the environment variable
``NANOBENCH_ENDLESS``. E.g. to run the benchmark with the name ``x += x`` endlessly, call the app this way:

.. code-block:: sh

   NANOBENCH_ENDLESS="x += x" ./yourapp

When your app runs it will run all benchmark normally, but when it encounters a benchmarked named ``x += x``, it will run this one endlessly.
It will print in nice friendly letters 

.. code-block:: text

   NANOBENCH_ENDLESS set: running 'x += x' endlessly
   
once it reaches that state.


.. warning::

    For optimal profiling with ``perf``, you shouldn't use ``pyperf system tune`` in the endless mode. PyPerf dramatically reduces the
    number of events that can be captured per second. This is a good to get accurate benchmark numbers from nanobench, but a bad when
    you actually want to use perf to analyze hotspots.

Commit message:

fix 39: Add support for environment variable NANOBENCH_SUPPRESS_WARNINGS

src/docs/reference.rst, after:

===============================
``ankerl::nanobench`` Reference
===============================

.. How to link: https://breathe.readthedocs.io/en/latest/domains.html
   E.g. :cpp:class:`ankerl::nanobench::Bench`

----------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:class:`Bench <ankerl::nanobench::Bench>` - Main Entry Point
----------------------------------------------------------------


.. doxygenclass:: ankerl::nanobench::Bench
    :members:



---------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:class:`Rng <ankerl::nanobench::Rng>` - Extremely fast PRNG
---------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenclass:: ankerl::nanobench::Rng
    :members:



-------------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:class:`Result <ankerl::nanobench::Result>` - Benchmark Results
-------------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenclass:: ankerl::nanobench::Result
    :members:



----------------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:func:`doNotOptimizeAway() <ankerl::nanobench::doNotOptimizeAway>`
----------------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::doNotOptimizeAway()



--------------------------------------------------------------------------
:cpp:func:`render() <ankerl::nanobench::render>` - Mustache-like Templates
--------------------------------------------------------------------------


.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::render(char const *mustacheTemplate, Bench const &bench, std::ostream &out)


:cpp:func:`templates::csv <ankerl::nanobench::templates::csv>`
--------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::templates::csv



:cpp:func:`templates::htmlBoxplot <ankerl::nanobench::templates::htmlBoxplot>`
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::templates::htmlBoxplot



:cpp:func:`templates::json <ankerl::nanobench::templates::json>`
----------------------------------------------------------------

.. doxygenfunction:: ankerl::nanobench::templates::json


---------------------
Environment Variables
---------------------

``NANOBENCH_ENDLESS`` - Run a Specific Test Endlessly
-----------------------------------------------------

Sometimes it helps to run a benchmark for a very long time, so that it's possible to attach with a profiler like
`perf <https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Main_Page>`_ and get meaningful statistics. This can be done with the environment variable
``NANOBENCH_ENDLESS``. E.g. to run the benchmark with the name ``x += x`` endlessly, call the app this way:

.. code-block:: sh

   NANOBENCH_ENDLESS="x += x" ./yourapp

When your app runs it will run all benchmark normally, but when it encounters a benchmarked named ``x += x``, it will run this one endlessly.
It will print in nice friendly letters 

.. code-block:: text

   NANOBENCH_ENDLESS set: running 'x += x' endlessly
   
once it reaches that state.


.. warning::

    For optimal profiling with ``perf``, you shouldn't use ``pyperf system tune`` in the endless mode. PyPerf dramatically reduces the
    number of events that can be captured per second. This is a good to get accurate benchmark numbers from nanobench, but a bad when
    you actually want to use perf to analyze hotspots.



``NANOBENCH_SUPPRESS_WARNINGS`` - No Stability Warnings
-------------------------------------------------------

In environmens where it is clear that the results will not be stable, e.g. in CI where benchmarks are merely run to check if they don't cause a crash,
the environment variable ``NANOBENCH_SUPPRESS_WARNINGS`` can be used to suppress any warnings. This includes the header warnings like for frequency scaling,
and the ``:wavy_dash:`` warnings for the individual tests.

Set ``NANOBENCH_SUPPRESS_WARNINGS=1`` to disable all warnings, or set it to 0 to enable warnings (the default mode).

.. code-block:: sh

   NANOBENCH_SUPPRESS_WARNINGS=1 ./yourapp
